# Deposit Rate Subsidization

Cavern Protocol's deposit rate stability is supported by borrow demand from borrower, borrower incentives and direct subsidization. Cavern defines a target deposit rate ($r_{target}$), and a threshold deposit rate ($r_{threshold}$) and constantly attempts to retain a deposit rate close to $r_{target}$ and always above $r_{threshold}$.

Every epoch, the average deposit rate during the last epoch ($r_{current}$) is calculated and compared with the target and threshold rates. Appropriate measures are then made to readjust the deposit rate.

## Borrower Reserves Incentives

Anchor Protocol used to incentivize borrowers using ANC emissions. This system, based on pure speculation around the ANC token is not admissible for us. However, we need to incentivize borrowers in a different way. 

In Cavern Protocol, we use part of the yield generated by deposited aLuna and other aAssets to reduce the borrow rate. Once every epoch (during epoch update operations), the staking rewards are withdrawn into the overseer contract and swapped to USDC. After this operation, a fraction of those rewards subsidizes the borrowers and lowers the actual interest rate. This fraction of rewards is called `reserves_rate_used_for_borrowers`. 
The mecanics of this adaptative system are very similar to the Utility Token emission model but removes that extra speculation layer.


Cavern alters the Reserves rate used for borrower incentives based on a **multiplicative increase / multiplicative decrease feedback control** algorithm, which adjusts the reserves usage rate of the next epoch $e_{n+1}$ based on the previous rate of $e_n$:

$$
e_{n+1} = k \cdot e_n
$$

The feedback control algorithm adjusts incentives with $r_{average}$ - the average of $r_{target}$ and $r_{threshold}$ - as the reference point:

$$
r_{average}=\frac{r_{target}+r_{threshold}}{2}
$$

* If deposit rate is approaching the threshold ($r_{current} < \frac{r_{threshold}+r_{average}}{2}$), increase distribution by 0.7% ($k \approx 1.007$)
* If deposit rate approaches the target ($r_{current} > \frac{r_{target}+r_{average}}{2}$), reduce distribution by 0.3% ($k \approx 0.997$)

where the set $k$ values result in a 50% emission increase over a week-long period or a 15% decrease over a week-long period at protocol genesis.

More info on the parameters used in the following model can be found on the [distribution model page](../parameters/distribution-model.md).

## Direct Subsidization

As an additional layer of safety, the protocol directly subsidizes the deposit rate if it is below the threshold rate ($r_{current}<r_{threshold}$), funded from the yield reserve's stockpiled stablecoins.&#x20;

An amount required to raise the deposit rate to the threshold is distributed to depositors, which is limited to 10% of the yield reserve's balance per subsidization to prevent excessive drainage. Distributed subsidies are added to the money market’s liquidity, increasing the aUSDC exchange rate and appreciating the value of aUSDC.

In order to reduce speculation and risks associated with over utilization of the protocol, we won't deposit any Cavern owned funds into the yield reserve pool.
